NUTRITIONAL PATHOLOGY


INSTRUCTIONS: 

Please review your M1 material on Nutrition and Calcium and Phosphate Homeostasis

OBJECTIVES: Upon completion of this section, the student will be able to:

1. Compare and contrast the following types of protein-energy malnutrition: 
a) marasmus
b) kwashiorkor 
c) secondary protein-energy malnutrition
with regard to:
i. etiology and pathogenesis
ii. effects on protein stores
iii. physical findings
iv. laboratory findings
v. morphologic features

2. Compare and contrast:
a) anorexia nervosa
b) bulimia (nervosa)
in terms of: 
i. pathophysiologic manifestations
ii. clinical findings
iii. complications

3. List the fat-soluble vitamins and the function of each, and discuss deficiency states of  each with regard to:
i. nomenclature
ii. etiology
iii. pathogenesis
iv. morphologic changes
v. clinical findings


4. List the water-soluble vitamins and the function of each, and discuss deficiency states of each, with regard to:
i. nomenclature
ii. etiology
iii. pathogenesis
iv. morphologic changes
v. clinical findings

5. Discuss the effects of diet on the pathogenesis of:
a) neoplasia
b) atherosclerosis
c) hypertension
d) colonic diverticulosis
e) aging 

6. List the five main categories of malnutrition
7. List the five major causes of undernutrition in the United States

8. Compare and contrast the skeletal changes of vitamin D deficiency with those of vitamin C deficiency, with regard to pathogenesis and morphology

9. List the principle morphologic and clinical manifestations of toxicity due to:
a) vitamin A
b) vitamin D 

10. Compare and contrast deficiency of folate vs. that of vitamin B12 , with regard to:
i. etiology
ii. pathogenesis
iii. hematopoietic manifestations
iv. neuropathologic manifestations
v. laboratory findings
vi. clinical features

11. List five trace elements with well-defined deficiency states

12. Solve case-based problems related to the objectives for this session

