CARCINOGENESIS: CHEMICAL, RADIATION, MICROBIAL

LEARNING TASKS

1. Define and use in proper context:

            	atrophic gastritis
      carcinogen
      carcinogenesis
      complete carcinogen
      electromagnetic radiation
      episome
      initiation
      insertional mutagenesis
      integration
      intestinal metaplasia
      mutagenesis
      nuclear factor ?B (NF-?B)
      oncogenic
      particulate radiation            
      procarcinogen
      promotion
      ultimate carcinogen
                        xeroderma pigmentosum



2. List the two most common forms of malignancy due to ionizing radiation, and discuss the susceptibility to each in terms of age.


3. For each of the following agents or conditions, name the neoplasm(s) for which there has been a suggested relationship:

     anti-cancer alkylating agents
     aromatic hydrocarbons
                 2-naphthylamine
                 aflatoxin
                 nitrite food preservatives
     chromium
           ultraviolet radiation
ionizing radiation
human papillomavirus (HPV)
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)
hepatitis B virus (HBV)
hepatitis C virus (HCV)
human herpesvirus-8 (HHV-8)
Helicobacter pylori




4. Describe the postulated mechanism of carcinogenesis by human T-cell leukemia virus, type 1 (HTLV-1), with specific reference to the role of TAX protein in the induction of  T-cell leukemia


5. Discuss the mechanism of cell transformation by “high risk” types of HPV, and list the:
viral genes involved
host cell genes/gene products targeted
putative mechanism of carcinogenesis, including cofactors involved 


6. Describe the postulated mechanism of induction by EBV of Burkitt lymphoma, in terms of:
   steps involved
   cofactors involved
   specific translocation involved
   critical genes involved in the above translocation


7. Compare and contrast the induction of hepatocellular carcinoma by HBV vs. that by HCV, in terms of:
differences in viral structure
postulated mechanisms of carcinogenesis, including, for HBV, the role of
     HBx protein   


8. Describe the postulated mechanism of carcinogenesis by Kaposi sarcoma herpesvirus (KSHV, HHV-8), with specific reference to:
		the role of immunodeficiency
the role of cytokines
the role of  growth factor stimulators


9. Compare and contrast the postulated mechanisms of induction of gastric adenocarcinoma vs. that of gastric lymphoma by Helicobacter pylori, including the role of the cytotoxin-associated A (CagA) gene in the induction of gastric adenocarcinoma.


10. Solve case-based problems related to the Objectives for this session.

