VIII. ENDOCRINE PHARMACOLOGY

1.0 Adenohypophyseal Hormones and Agents: Describe the major
adenohypophyseal hormones and the identified roles of neurotransmitter systems in
their regulation. List the readily available pituitary hormones, describe their
mechanisms of action, and identify the effects of dopamine agonists on their level.
Predict the potential undesired consequences of therapy with these hormones.

2.0 Adrenal Cortex: Explain the regulation of glucocorticoid, mineralocorticoid
and adrenal androgen secretion. Describe the physiological actions of the
glucocorticoids on metabolism of carbohydrates, fat, protein and minerals as well astheir effects on organ systems. State the current understanding of the mechanisms
involved in their antiinflammatory actions. State the major therapeutic applications
and the Basic Pharmacological Concepts involved in their use. Explain the special
problems involved in chronic treatment and withdrawal.

3.0 Estrogens, Progestins and Systemic Contraceptives: Demonstrate a
general knowledge of the factors regulating the estrogen and progestin cycle as well
as the systems affected by these hormones. Describe the estrogen receptor
hypothesis. State the rationale as to agents and dosage regimens used in systemic
contraceptives. List the major indications and contraindications for estrogens and
progestins.

4.0 Androgens and Anabolic Steroids: List the major indications for therapy
with androgens or anabolic steroids, and explain how the Basic Pharmacological
Principles affect their usage.

5.0 Thyroid and Antithyroid Drugs: Describe the synthesis, storage and
release and elimination of the thyroid hormones. Explain the mechanisms by which
thyroid and antithyroid drugs affect this process, and its regulation. List the major
thyroid and antithyroid agents and describe how the Basic Pharmacological
Principles affect their usage.

6.0 Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Agents: Describe the metabolic issues
involved in the management of diabetes. List the major types of insulin
preparations and explain their pharmacokinetic properties. Describe the
mechanisms involved in actions of oral hypoglycemics. List the model oral
hypoglycemic drugs and explain how the Basic Pharmacological Principles affect
their use.

7.0 Parathyroid and Calcium Homeostasis: Describe in terms of an overview
of calcium regulation.
