IX. CHEMOTHERAPY

1.0 Chemotherapy of Microbial Diseases:
1.1 Sulfonamides: Describe the mechanisms of action and the
development of resistance. List the model drugs in this category and their
applications. Explain the Basic Pharmacological Principles governing their
use and the rationale of combination therapies.

1.2 Inhibitors of Cell Wall Synthesis: Describe the steps in cell wall
synthesis, and the points of drug attack. Explain the mechanisms of
resistance and cross-resistance. List some model drugs and discuss in termsof important pharmacological differences. State common adverse reactions
and discuss allergic reactions.

1.3 Inhibitors of Protein Synthesis: Describe the mechanism of
action. List the major model drugs in this category and the important
differences in mechanisms of action, pharmacokinetics and toxicities.
Describe rational use of combination therapy.

1.4 Antitubercular Drugs: Describe mechanisms of action, Basic
Pharmacological Principles governing their use and unique
pharmacogenetic problems.

1.5 Antifungal Drugs: Describe basic mechanisms of fungistatic and
fungicidal action and development of resistance. List the model drugs in
this category and their application.

2.0 Anticancer Drugs, Antiviral and Immunosuppressive Agents:
2.1 Anticancer Agents: Includes alkylating agents, antimetabolites,
hormones and other anti-proliferative agents. Describe the cellular,
biochemical and clinical characteristics of malignant blood disease and solid
tumors. Describe mechanisms and sites of action. Develop the concept of
cell-cycle specific and non-specific antineoplastic drugs. Explain problems of
resistance, and develop the rationale for concomitant and sequential drug
administration. Discuss major problems in toxicity and selectivity.

2.2 Immunoaltering Agents: Describe the scheme of the cellularmediated
immune response, and characterize the classes of agents that
suppress, modulate and amplify the immune response. Discuss the major
problems of selectivity and toxicity.

2.3 Antiviral Agents: Describe the steps in viral infection and the
points of drug attack. List the model drugs in this category and their
applications.

2.4 Antiparasitic Agents: List the drug of choice for malaria,
helminth and protozoan parasites and their mode of action.
